<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

-   [<!-- Instead, edit packages/website/src/docs/components/forms/textinput.mdx -->](#---instead-edit-packageswebsitesrcdocscomponentsformstextinputmdx---)
-   [keywords: ["textinput", "form control", "input", "field", "textarea"]](#keywords-textinput-form-control-input-field-textarea)
-   [TextInput](#textinput)
    -   [Usage](#usage)
    -   [Props](#props)
    -   [See Also](#see-also)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

<!-- Automatically Generated. Do not edit this file. -->

## <!-- Instead, edit packages/website/src/docs/components/forms/textinput.mdx -->

title: TextInput
type: forms
description: "`TextInput` is a form component that users can enter content into."
slug: /components/textinput/
keywords: ["textinput", "form control", "input", "field", "textarea"]

---

# TextInput

<!-- props -->
<!-- Automatically Generated -->

## Usage

```jsx live
import { TextInput } from '@wp-g2/components';

function Example() {
	return <TextInput placeholder="First name" />;
}
```

## Props

##### align

**Type**: `CSS['alignItems']`

Aligns children using CSS Flexbox `align-items`. Vertically aligns content if the `direction` is `row`, or horizontally aligns content if the `direction` is `column`.

In the example below, `flex-start` will align the children content to the top.

##### autoWrap

**Type**: `boolean`

Automatically wraps children if they're not `FlexItem` or `FlexBlock` elements.

##### defaultValue

**Type**: `boolean`

The default (initial) state to use if `value` is undefined.

##### direction

**Type**: `FlexDirection`

The direction flow of the children content can be adjusted with `direction`. `column` will align children vertically and `row` will align children horizontally.

##### disabled

**Type**: `boolean`

Determines if element is disabled.

##### gap

**Type**: `number`

The amount of space between each child element.

##### isClickable

**Type**: `boolean`

Renders a `cursor: pointer` on hover.

##### isFocused

**Type**: `boolean`

Renders focus styles.

##### isResizable

**Type**: `boolean`

Allows for the a multiline `TextInput` to tbe resizable by dragging.

##### isRounded

**Type**: `boolean`

Renders with rounded corners.

##### isSubtle

**Type**: `boolean`

Renders a subtle variant.

##### justify

**Type**: `CSS['justifyContent']`

Horizontally aligns content if the `direction` is `row`, or vertically aligns content if the `direction` is `column`.
In the example below, `flex-start` will align the children content to the left.

##### label

**Type**: `string`

Label for the form element.

##### maxRows

**Type**: `number`

Maximum number of rows to show for a multiline `TextInput`.

##### minRows

**Type**: `number`

Alias for `rows`.

##### multiline

**Type**: `boolean`

Renders `TextInput` to allow for multiline lines (`textarea`).

##### onHeightChange

**Type**: `Function`

Callback function when the height changes with a multiline `TextInput`.

##### prefix

**Type**: `React.ReactElement`

Renders prefix content within `TextInput`.

##### rows

**Type**: `number`

Minimal number of rows to show for a multiline `TextInput`.

##### size

**Type**: `"large"`,`"medium"`,`"small"`

Determines the size of `TextInput`.

##### suffix

**Type**: `React.ReactElement`

Renders prefix content within `TextInput`.

##### value

**Type**: `any`

Value for the form element.

##### wrap

**Type**: `boolean`

Determines if children should wrap.

<!-- /Automatically Generated -->
<!-- /props -->

## See Also

-   [Button](/components/button/)
-   [Select](/components/select/)
